# OVAL Language Proposal Acceptance Criteria


**1. List existing issue id**
Create a github OVAL Language issue <Insert link to issue id creation process> which will be reviewed by the board and approved/denied before creating an entire proposal.

**2. Proposal Summary**
Write up a single sentence of what is to be updated in the OVAL Language.  This will be used for tracking your proposal from start to finish and may be used as part of the OVAL changelog if approved.

**3. Proposal Description**
Explain in detail, what is lacking in OVAL and what your proposal aims to accomplish.

**4. Backward Compatibility**
Document any backward compatibility issues this update may cause.

Note: Breaking backwards compatibility will likely cause any proposal to be deferred until the next "major" version of the language.

**5. New Capabilities**
Confirm that what you are proposing cannot be accomplished with existing OVAL.  If it can be accomplished with existing OVAL, but the proposed method is &#39;better&#39;, explain why.

**6. Complies with OVAL Design Principles**
Refer to &lt;OVAL Design Principles&gt; to ensure this proposal complies.

**7. Affected OVAL Schema Documents**
List the schema&#39;s to be updated, by name.  Example:

- windows-definitions-schema.xsd
- windows-system-characteristics-schema.xsd

**8. Document implementation**
Document how the data is gathered from the system, include any System API&#39;s, command line application used, parsing of configuration files etc..

If any online documentation exists from the Operating System or application vendor, please include any URLs.

While the implementation is not mandated for other OVAL vendors to follow, documenting which system calls were used to obtain the data will allow proposal reviewers to quickly understand what is being performed, and may allow other vendors to create their own prototypes.

**9. OVAL Schema Update**
Obtain a copy of the most recent OVAL schema&#39;s available and update them based on your proposal.

**10. Sample Content**
Create verbose sample content, which demonstrates all capabilities of your proposal.  Creating content that tests all possible capabilities may also decrease the need for future updates after real world usage occurs.  The more detailed the content is, the higher the likelihood for approval and overall success.

Sample content must be able to be validated using the updated XML schema.

**11. Demonstrating Capabilities**
Create a prototype application which performs the capabilities documented in your proposal, and processes the sample content created.

Creating a prototype demonstrates to the OVAL Board that the proposal is technically feasible and will help work out any major issues.  If you are not an OVAL Interpreter developer, you may want to partner with an existing developer.

**12. Sample Results**
Include the OVAL results generated by your prototype and using the sample content listed in this proposal.

Results must be able to be validated using the updated XML schema.

**13. Proposal Submission Package**
Create a zip file that contains:

1. Your proposal based on this document
2. Subdirectories
  1. Update OVAL Schemas
  2. Sample Content
  3. Sample Results


